# Physical Connection Permits & Private Wells

Source: https://www.livingstonnj.org/1904/Physical-Connection-Permits-Private-Well

# Physical Connection Permits & Private Wells

## Physical Connection Permits

If a property has an unapproved non-potable water source "Cross Connected" with the Livingston Water Supply, then a physical connection permit issued by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP) is required. An example of an unapproved non-potable water source would be a private well or industrial process where chemicals are being mixed into the water supply. General information regarding physical connection permits can be found on the [NJDEP's website](https://www.nj.gov/dep/watersupply/dwc_physcon.html). The NJDEP also spells out [what Triggers a New Jersey DEP Physical Connection Permit (PDF)](https://www.nj.gov/dep/watersupply/pdf/physcon-triggers.pdf). The Township requires a copy of all quarterly inspection reports as well as the annual permit renewal for any physical connection permit.

## Private Wells

There are a handful of private wells that still operate within the Township. It is very rare, but occasionally new wells are drilled, but they are almost exclusively non-potable wells used for irrigation purposes. The Township does specifically prohibit private irrigation wells, but does not specifically regulate them either. All well permits are issued by the NJDEP. All work on a well must be performed by a NJDEP Licensed Master Driller. The Township would require a copy of the well permit upon completion. The Township would also need to be kept informed of the status of the well. If the non-potable well is "cross connected" with the Livingston Water Supply, it would require a backflow preventer and be subject to the NJDEP physical connection permit criteria outlined above. This would also require a quarterly inspection report that needs to be submitted to the State as well as to the Township. If the private well supply is kept completely separate, then a physical connection permit is not needed. However, in the case of a private well being used for irrigation, the property would be solely reliant on the private well for the irrigation system.

Typically, irrigation wells are for large water users such as a golf course, farm, or plant nursery, as they are the only places that use enough water to justify the cost of well construction. For smaller residential properties, purchasing a separate lawn sprinkler meter from the Township may be a better option for reducing lawn sprinkler costs without drilling a private well. Usage of these meters is only charged for water, but not sewer, and many properties in Livingston have a separate lawn meter account. Prior to purchasing a meter, a permit for a lawn sprinkler backflow preventer must be obtained from the Building Department. Once this permit is obtained, a meter may be purchased from the Township. The property owner would then have to hire a plumber to install the meter. After it is installed, an appointment needs to be scheduled with the Township to install the remote reading device. More information on meter prices and lawn sprinkler rates can be found in the [Water/Sewer Fees and Rates (PDF)](https://livingstonnj.org/DocumentCenter/View/8868/Water-Sewer-Fee-List-PDF?bidId=).