# Smart 911

Source: https://livingstonnj.org/2021/Smart-911

# Smart 911

The Livingston Police Department is now equipped with Smart911, a move that could help save critical seconds, and even minutes, in emergency responses.

Smart911 is a free and secure electronic system in which individuals can provide key information to create personalized safety profiles that are shared with 9-1-1 call takers and first responders in the event of an accident, issue, or moment of need.

## Smart911 Safety Profile

A Smart911 Safety Profile is a set of information about an individual or a household that is contained within one account on [Smart911](https://www.smart911.com/smart911/ref/login.action?pa=livingstonnj).

If a Livingston resident with a Smart911 Safety Profile makes an emergency call, their Safety Profile, linked to their phone number, is automatically displayed to the 9-1-1 call taker, allowing them to send the right response teams to the right location with the right information.

Since a Smart911 Safety Profile is linked to your phone number, your Safety Profile can also be accessible to local first responders outside Livingston, if that town has Smart911.

### What Can My Smart911 Safety Profile Include?

* Family: If any member of your household calls 9-1-1, information about your entire family will be available, including emergency contacts.
* Address Details: First responders can help you faster when you provide address details about your home.
* Medical Information: Avoid dangerous drug interactions or allergic reactions by listing your medications and conditions.
* Animals: Keep all members of your household safe by including pets, livestock, or service animals that responders need to be aware of.
* Vehicles: Having the description and license plate of your vehicle can quicken response in an accident or if you need help while in your car.

Your information is **only** available to 9-1-1 call takers and first responders if you have an emergency and call 9-1-1.

## Sign Up

Visit [Smart911](https://www.smart911.com/smart911/ref/login.action?pa=livingstonnj) to sign up today!

Emergency contacts can create Safety Profiles on behalf of elderly parents, those with disabilities, or anyone not comfortable with computers.