# Leaf Collection

Source: https://www.livingstonnj.org/385

# Leaf Collection

The Leaf Collection Program Schedule is for municipal streets only.
Pickups on County roads and State Rt. 10 will be made once weekly.

| Week | Section | Put Leaves in Street | Leaves Picked Up |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | 1 | Oct. 26 - Nov. 2 | Nov. 3 - Nov. 8 |
| 2 | 2 | Nov. 2 - Nov. 9 | Nov. 10 - Nov. 22 |
| 3 | 3 | Nov. 16 - Nov. 23 | Nov. 24 - Nov. 29 |
| 4 | 1, 2 & 3 | Nov. 23 - Dec. 7 | Dec. 1 - Dec. 13 |

* Once the leaves in your section have been picked up, do not place more leaves in the street until the next scheduled date (week 4 for all sections)
* The last date to put leaves in the street for collection is **Sunday, December 7, 2025**
* Make sure your landscaper knows these dates; [view printable flyer (PDF)](/DocumentCenter/View/33149)

## Find your Leaf Collection Section

[Alphabetical List of Streets](/1071/SectionsZones-by-Street)

### Basic Leaf Collection Sections

* Section 1: Area north of East / West of Mount Pleasant Avenue.
* Section 2: Area south of East and West Mount Pleasant Avenue and north of East and West Northfield Road.
* Section 3: Area south of East and West Northfield Road and West Mount Pleasant Avenue west of the traffic circle.

## Leaf Collection on County and State Roads

Leaf collection on Essex County Roads and State Highway Rt. 10 will occur once per week during the 2025 Leaf Collection Season, once leaf collection has begun on Sunday, October 26 (see chart above). Leaves along these roads must be bagged. [View the list of County and State Roads (PDF)](/DocumentCenter/View/26136/State--County-Roads-in-Livingston).

Livingston Township provides free paper leaf bags to property owners on Essex County roads or State Highway Route 10 (Mt. Pleasant Avenue). Proof of address is required.

Leaf bags can be picked up 8:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. from **Monday, October 20 through Monday, November 24, 2025**at the Public Works Garage, 235 S. Livingston Avenue. [More information (PDF)](/DocumentCenter/View/650).

The final date that paper-bagged leaves may be placed at the curb for collection on Essex County roads and State Highway Rt. 10 is **Sunday,** **December 7, 2025**.