# Sewer Utility / Water Pollution Control Facility

Source: https://www.livingstonnj.org/399/Sewer-Utility

# Sewer Utility / Water Pollution Control Facility

## About

The Township of Livingston Sewer Utility provides our community with wastewater collection and treatment. We are responsible for the treatment of sewage generated by the town. We operate the sanitary systems for the community and work to ensure the cleanliness of our wastewater for our residents.

## Water & Sewer - Fees, Rates, Bill Pay & Account Change

* To view water/sewer fees and rates, view the [Water Sewer Fee List (PDF)](/DocumentCenter/View/8868/2019-Water-Sewer-Fee-List).
* To pay your water/sewer bill, visit the [Tax Office Online Bill Pay Tool](https://www.livingstonnj.org/1409/TaxUtility-Online-Lookup-Payment) page.
* For moving/selling or changing account name, complete a [Final Water Reading Request Form](/FormCenter/Water-Department-18/Final-Water-Reading-Request-Form-72). A Final Water Reading Request covers both the water & sewer accounts for each property.

## Low-Income Household Water Assistance Program

The State Low Income Household Water Assistance Program (LIHWAP) can help you pay arrears for your water and sewer bills. The program may also be able to help address tax liens due to water and sewer arrears.

To get more information and apply, visit [Low-Income Household Water Assistance Program](https://nj.gov/dca/dhcr/offices/lihwap_faq.shtml) or call NJ211.

## Sewer Lateral Line Backups

The sewer lateral line is the underground pipe which connects a building to the sewer main in the street (or easement).  The sewer main is a larger diameter pipe located in the Township right-of-way in the roadway or an easement.  In general, the property owner is responsible for maintaining the sanitary sewer lateral and sanitary sewer cleanout, including replacing the lid, uncovering it if buried, and repairing it if broken.

## It is the property owner's responsibility to keep the sewer lateral line clear, and if there is a backup they have to clear the sewer lateral line. This includes the entire length of the sewer lateral line from the house to the sewer main, regardless of if a portion of the sewer lateral line is in the street.  Certain types of sewer lateral line obstructions such as tree roots may require more aggressive clearing techniques such as jetting or root cutters to clear.  These clearing techniques may require more specialized technicians than a regular plumber.   It is the Township's responsibility to clear a backup in the sewer main in the street. If it is determined that there is a problem with the sewer lateral line itself, such as a pipe failure, which requires excavation to repair and that problem behind the curb, it is the property owner's responsibility to make these repairs. If the entirety of the sewer lateral is behind the curb going to an easement, then no portion of the sewer lateral is the Township's responsibility.  If there is a problem with the sewer lateral in the street then it is the Township's responsibility to make these repairs.

If a backup in the main line is suspected, call 973-535-7951 between 8:30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday. After hours, call the Livingston Police Department at 973-992-3000, press 4. The Township will not clear private sewer lateral backups, and those issues should be referred to a qualified professional such as a plumber.

## FOG (Fat, Oil & Grease)

Are you setting up your home for a sewer disaster? Read about [fat, oil, and grease disposal (PDF)](/DocumentCenter/View/697).

## Sewer Dos & Don’ts

Find out what you can [flush or put down the drain (PDF)](/DocumentCenter/View/696) and what belongs in the garbage can!

## Utility Service Line Ownership & New Utility Connections

* View information about [water service line and sewer lateral connections.](/1446/Utility-Connection-Permits)
* View information about [new utility connections for new construction.](/1568/Utility-Service-Line-Ownership)

## Water Pollution Control Facility

The Township of Livingston Sewer Utility is responsible for treating almost all sewage generated by the Township. The Water Pollution Control Facility (WPCF) is the wastewater treatment plant for the Township and only serves Livingston. The WPCF is a tertiary treatment plant which generates effluent — or outflow — of a very high quality which helps to safeguard the environment. Treated sewage commonly has over 98% of its suspended solids and over 99% of its 5-Day BOD (Biochemical Oxygen Demand) removed before it is discharged into the Passaic River.

After water is treated and discharged from our facility, it’s actually of a much higher quality than the river water. That makes it cleaner than the river it joins. That means a safer and healthier environment for local aquatic ecology and underlying groundwater.

## Sewer Collection System

The Sewer Utility is also responsible for the sewer collection system — 137 miles of sanitary sewer pipes that run through Livingston. There are over 4,000 manholes in town to provide access to the sewer lines for repairs and maintenance. There is a separate stormwater collection that serves to direct rainfall away from the streets via catch basins and storm drains during rain events. These systems are not combined or connected in any way.

## Lift Stations

There are also 7 lift stations (also called pump stations) that help convey wastewater to the treatment plant every day. Lift stations help transport wastewater by first elevating it and then letting it flow down through the system by gravity. This provides a much more economical solution than installing pumps within the system itself in order to move the fluid.

## Other Sewer Resources

* [Solutions to Stormwater Pollution (PDF)](/DocumentCenter/View/692)
* [Water - Our Precious Resource (PDF)](/DocumentCenter/View/693)
* [Water Pollution Control Plant (PDF)](/DocumentCenter/View/694)